>> Melkey: So now that we have
the interface, we have all the structs,
we can start writing the functions for
the things we have here.
So first, let's go ahead and create user.
So we're gonna do func.
You could do, I don't know,
s *PostgresUserStore.
It's going to be called createuser, right.
It has to, again,
match the method of the interface there,
the signature so
user be a pointer to user.
I'm just going to turn an error like so,
and
then here we're gonna create our query.
So exact same foundational
things that we did earlier,
nothing new is really changing.
So here we're going to insert into users.
We're gonna do all the fields
we care about, so username,
email, password, underscore hash,
and then bio values.
I'm gonna insert four values,
so one, two, three and
four, username, email,
password, hash and bio, okay.
And here we can just do
something like RETURNING id.
And if you want for users, for
anniversaries of when they
created the account, or
if you want to store that sometimes
you see this account was created.
So, like on Twitter,
you can also return the created at and
if you want also the updated at.
Okay, and then here we can just do errors,
it's going to be s.db.queryrow.
I'm going to pass in that query like so
and then all the fields as they appear.
So user.username, user.email,
user.password hash.hash,
okay, and user.bio,
it's going to yellow this because we
need to use the scan method now and
scan the returning fields into
the appropriate fields here.
So it's ID created at and updated at,
again, these have to be addresses.
So we can do user.ID,
user.CreatedAt and
then user.UpdatedAt, like so.
For standards, go ahead and
check this error.
So if our error does not equal to nil,
we can do a few things.
We can just return error actually.
>> Melkey: Okay, otherwise,
let's just return nil.
Let's move on to the next function,
which is get user by user name.
Okay, so we just do us PostgresUserStore,
GetUserByUsername.
It's gonna take the username string and
it's
gonna return user and an error, like so
>> Melkey: Okay,
we're gonna first define our user.
So here we can make it
define a new user like so.
Okay, and we have to instantiate
the password, so password hash, and
we can just do it's gonna
be password like so.
>> Melkey: Okay, let's go ahead and
run the query so
we can do SELECT id, username, email,
password_hash, bio, created_at and
the last field is updated_at.
From our users table
where the username equals
the one and
only value we're gonna pass in.
And here we can declare our error as sdb.
We can do QueryRow pass in that query,
like so, and
all the fields that we want to see,
which is just username,okay.
But then we can scan, and I'll open
this up just a bit easier to read.
And because we've declared our user a few
lines above, it's going to be pretty easy
that we can just do user and
start pulling in those fields.
We can do user.Username or sorry,
the first field is ID, okay?
User.Username
>> Melkey: User.email,
okay, then we can do user dot, oops,
user dot password hash dot hash like so.
Okay, in the user.Bio and
then user.CreatedAt, user.UpdatedAt.
>> Melkey: And
as we know with the select clause,
it's not guaranteed to return anything,
but nor is that an error.
So we can handle this with if error equals
sql error no errors or no rows excuse me.
You can simply do return nil and nil,
if our error does not equal to nil,
so if something wrong happened,
if you turned nil and the error.
Okay, otherwise, we can go ahead and
return the user and
nil like so let's rip that bandit off and
create the update user function as well.
And then we will not have to be in
this file anymore for a little bit.
We do func and feel free if you already
kind of know where we're going with this,
write it out as I'm
writing it to maybe have,
if you have to look up to see if you
kind of stumble, it's a good way.
But I encourage everyone
just to try it out as well.
So this UpdateUser, I'm going to say user,
pointer to our user, like so
and so this is update user.
All we care about is if, if there's
an error or not, we don't necessarily
need to return the full user up
to if you want to implement that.
Okay, I'm gonna define the query here and
here I'm gonna update the users table,
we're gonna SET username as
the first value we potentially
could be getting,email as the second,
bio as the third.
And an updated app,
we can set this to CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
which is a native function in Postgres.
Where id lowercase
equals the fourth value,
okay, returning updated_at,
then we can do result and
error sdb I'm gonna execute
this pass in that query and
then the four variables it expects.
So user.Username,
user.Email, user.Bio, okay?
And then user.ID.
Let's check that error,
if error does not equal
to nil let's just return that
error back to our caller.
With an update, we're gonna see
how many rows were affected.
So we can do rows affected.
Error is going to be result.rows
affected like so whoops.
Okay, we can check this error
if error does not equal to nil,
let's go ahead and also return that error.
>> Melkey: And
if rows affected is zero we can
just return sql.ErrNoRows.
Otherwise we can return nil.